== Google Maps for Rails (gmaps4rails)

Gmaps4rails is developped to simply create a Google Map:

- directly from your model,

- from your own json

It's based on Ruby on Rails 3 Engines and uses Google Maps API V3.

See (somewhat outdated) screencasts here: http://www.youtube.com/user/TheApneadiving

== When Gmaps4rails finally means Global Maps for Rails

I've added support for other map providers:

* openlayers

* mapquest

* bing

See: https://github.com/apneadiving/Google-Maps-for-Rails/wiki/Map-Apis

Any help would be appreciated to complete this work.


== Requirements
- gem 'gmaps4rails'     (in your gemfile, then bundle)
- <%= yield :head %>    (in your header) 
- <%= yield :scripts %> (in your footer)

To make Rails serve the assets (javascripts, stylesheets and marker images) you have several options, depending on your configuration and Rails version:
- if you are using Rails 3.1 and have asset pipeline enabled ('config.assets.enabled = true' in config/application.rb), include the appropriate manifest:

  * //= require gmaps4rails/bing.js
  
  * //= require gmaps4rails/googlemaps.js
  
  * //= require gmaps4rails/mapquest.js
  
  * //= require gmaps4rails/openlayers.js
  
  * //= require gmaps4rails/all_apis.js
  
  You even don't need the `yield :head` if you include `require gmaps4rails` in your CSS manifest.
  
- if you are using Rails 3.0:
  if you have Rails configured to serve static assets ('config.serve_static_assets = true'; note that it is disabled by default in production environment), they'll be served directly from gem's public/ directory.

- finally you can just copy assets to your application's public/stylesheets, public/javascripts/gmaps4rails and public/images. It's recommended to do this in production so that you can let your webserver serve them rather than go through Rails each time they are requested. There's a generator to help you with that:

     rails generate gmaps4rails:install
     
  This will copy the coffeescript files if you're running Rails 3.1 or the js files 

== Basic configuration
In your model, add:


   acts_as_gmappable

   def gmaps4rails_address
     #describe how to retrieve the address from your model, if you use directly a db column, you can dry your code, see wiki
     "#{self.street}, #{self.city}, #{self.country}" 
   end

Create a migration and add the following fields to your table (here users):


   add_column :users, :latitude, :float #you can change the name, see wiki
   add_column :users, :longitude, :float #you can change the name, see wiki
   add_column :users, :gmaps, :boolean #not mandatory, see wiki


== How to?
=== QuickStart!
In your controller:
 
  @json = User.all.to_gmaps4rails

In your view:

  <%= gmaps4rails(@json) %>

Done!

== Options

* Markers with Info window, Custom Picture, RichMarkers (make your own markers with custom html)

* Automatic sidebar with list of markers

* Circles, Polylines, Polygons

* Geocode directly your address and retrieve coordinates. 

* Wrapper for 'Direction', giving instructions to go from point A to point B

* Auto-adjust the map to your markers

* Refresh your map on the fly with Javascript (and Ajax)

* KML support

* Easy multimap

* {More details in the Wiki}[https://github.com/apneadiving/Google-Maps-for-Rails/wiki]

== Todo?

Feel free ton contact us, you have your say.

== Copyright
MIT license. 

Authors: Benjamin Roth, David Ruyer

Contributors: Mircea Pricop, Kamil Śliwak, Alex Vorobiev
